# CS-305-SoftwareSecurity

Artemis Financial is a company that owns a public web interface. They came to our company, Global Rain, to modernize their security operations. Specifically, they wanted to add a checksum verification capability to their application. In my "Secure Software Report," you will see details of this checksum verification and its use of the SHA-256 hash algorithm. 

When I first worked on the project there were 53 vulnerabilities as per the dependency check report. After a walkthrough of the vulnerabilities and the code, I update the "Spring Boot Starter Parent" version to the latest version. This brought the system vulnerabilities from 53 to 1. This is an example of the importance of system configuration best practices. Keeping a dependency or plugin up to date will ensure that each item receives the newest patches and fixes. 

Security is an important aspect of every software and application, especially if it deals with sensitive information. Without security, anybody would be able to access an organization's data. This could include the company's internal files, client PII, and financial information. Security best practices are fundamental to protecting an organization and its clients. If security is a priority for a company, it will gain more trust from its consumers. 

The vulnerability assessment was initially challenging for me for a couple of reasons. The first being that there were a lot of them. It was difficult to read and track all of them down, let alone try to comprehend each. The second reason is that it was difficult to search for solutions. While I could look at the NIST website and find a proper definition, going through the potential fix links started to confuse me more than help. There seemed to be many different fixes for one vulnerability. While that is a good thing, it is difficult to understand as a developer which one applies to me. It took a bit of trial and error and outside resources to find what worked for my application.

I increased layers of security by developing a checksum verification. Using the SHA-256 hash algorithm, I could feed data into the program and it would spit out a digest of 256 bits. The data set and the digest in my program were visible through localhost. Using Java keytool, I could create a keystore and a selfsigned certificate for the localhost. Through the program, I could convert the application from HTTP to HTTPS in an attempt to secure the site and view the localhost with a valid certificate. In the future, I plan to continue using Maven to generate dependency check reports. They help a lot in understanding where the program might need to be updated and the potential issues that could arise if it is not. NIST and CVE will continue to be great tools for vulnerability insight. 

After I refactored the code I ran another dependency check report. The vulnerability I had left was new and a fix has not yet been discovered. I also checked the error log to make sure all the errors and warnings were addressed. I did have one warning concerning the JavaSE version I referenced in my build path. To resolve this error I updated the JRE System Library properties to reference the Java version I had installed and built the project again. 

Sites like StackOverflow always help when errors need to be resolved. Surprisingly, with the new ChatGPT AI bot, I had a lot of success. I asked for an example of what keystore assignment in a .properites file would like and it showed it to me upon asking. It saves a lot of time when don't have to search through links to find an example. ChatGPT is a tool I will look more into as I continue to develop projects.

From this assignment, I would show my employer my understanding and knowledge of algorithms. Both hash algorithms and block ciphers have unique qualities that can influence whether an organization would utilize them or not. These factors include but are not limited to data size, speed, cryptographic type, etc. I find the topic interesting especially when it comes to integrating more than one into a single system. I would show them my compiled program so they can see the digest I generated as well. 
